EXCEPTION HANDLING.md, before:

# Exp.No:17  
## EXCEPTION HANDLING

---

### AIM  
To create a Python program that prompts the user for a list of grades separated by commas, splits the string into individual grades, and uses exception handling to inform the user if the values they entered cannot be converted to integers.

---

### ALGORITHM

1. Begin the program.  
2. Read a string `input_str` from the user using `input()`.  
3. Split the input string using commas (`,`) to create a list of grades.  
4. Use a `try` block to attempt converting each item in the grades list to an integer and store the result in `l1`.  
5. If the conversion is successful, print the list `l1` containing the integer values.  
6. If an error occurs during conversion (for example, if the input is not a valid number), catch the exception and print an error message: `"The grades you entered were in an invalid format."` along with the original grades list.  
7. Terminate the program.

---

### PROGRAM

```
try:
    x=list(map(eval,input().split()))
    print("[14, 15, 16, 14]")
except:
    print('''The grades you entered were in an invalid format.
['14', '15', 'saveetha']''')


```

### OUTPUT
<img width="1017" height="201" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/31c833f0-027f-4372-ac68-74560ec2df93" />

### RESULT
Thus a Python program that prompts the user for a list of grades separated by commas, splits the string into individual grades, and uses exception handling to inform the user if the values they entered cannot be converted to integers was implemented and executed successfully.

Commit message:

Enhance exception handling example for grade processing
Updated the exception handling section with a Python program to process grades and handle invalid input.

EXCEPTION HANDLING.md, after:

# Exp.No:17  
## EXCEPTION HANDLING

---

### AIM  
To create a Python program that prompts the user for a list of grades separated by commas, splits the string into individual grades, and uses exception handling to inform the user if the values they entered cannot be converted to integers.

---

### ALGORITHM

1. Begin the program.  
2. Read a string `input_str` from the user using `input()`.  
3. Split the input string using commas (`,`) to create a list of grades.  
4. Use a `try` block to attempt converting each item in the grades list to an integer and store the result in `l1`.  
5. If the conversion is successful, print the list `l1` containing the integer values.  
6. If an error occurs during conversion (for example, if the input is not a valid number), catch the exception and print an error message: `"The grades you entered were in an invalid format."` along with the original grades list.  
7. Terminate the program.

---
### PROGRAM
```python
def process_grades():
   
    grades_input = input()
    grades_list = grades_input.split(",")

    try:
        grades_int = [int(grade.strip()) for grade in grades_list]
        return grades_int
    except ValueError:
        return f"The grades you entered were in an invalid format.\n{grades_list}"


result = process_grades()
print(result)


```
### OUTPUT
<img width="1017" height="201" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/31c833f0-027f-4372-ac68-74560ec2df93" />

### RESULT
Thus the python program that prompts the user for a list of grades separated by commas, splits the string into individual grades, and uses exception handling to inform the user if the values they entered cannot be converted to integers has been implemented and executed successfully.
